# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

_CROP_JCMT_IMAGE_ - trim JCMT image to specified map size

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 _CROP_JCMT_IMAGE_

 _CROP_JCMT_IMAGE_ GROUP=1

 _CROP_JCMT_IMAGE_ METHOD=circle

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This PICARD primitive is designed to trim an input image to the size
given by the map parameters in the header or to a user-specified size.

The user may specify the desired map width and height or a map radius
(for a circular ouput region) via recipe parameters.

The desired map size is checked against the input image dimensions and
the smaller of the two sizes is used for the output image.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

This primitive supports the following argument.

=over 2

=item B<GROUP>

If true, use the current Group file. Otherwise, use the current
Frame. Default is 0 (false).

=item B<METHOD>

Crop method to use. May be C<rectangle> or C<circle> to use a defined
map size or C<statistical> to apply a statistical threshold. Default
is C<rectangle>. May be overridden with the C<CROP_METHOD> recipe
parameter.

=back

=head1 EXTERNAL TASKS

The following external tasks are used:

=over 4

=item ORAC-DR primitives:

SCUBA2: _THRESHOLD_IMAGE_, _TRIM_MAP_EDGES_

=back

=head1 OUTPUT DATA

The current object is updated with the cropped file and tagged
C<crop>.

=head1 OUTPUT FILES

Creates output file with the suffix C<_crop>.

=head1 NOTES

=over 2

=item *

Currently only works for SCUBA-2 but the primitives used are not
specific to that instrument and should work for heterodyne data.

=item *

The current object should contain only a single file.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010-2013 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

my $group = get_prim_arg($_PRIM_ARGS_, "GROUP", 0);
my $Obj = ($group) ? $Grp : $Frm;

if ($Obj->file_exists) {
  my $method = lc(get_prim_arg($_PRIM_ARGS_, "METHOD", "rectangle"));
  $method = $Frm->uhdr("RECPAR_CROP_METHOD")
    if (defined $Frm->uhdr("RECPAR_CROP_METHOD"));

  if ($method =~ /^stat/) {
    orac_print ("\nCalling _CROP_JCMT_IMAGE_: trim image using statistical estimator\n", "yellow");

    _THRESHOLD_IMAGE_ GROUP=$group TAG=crop
  } else {
    orac_print ("\nCalling _CROP_JCMT_IMAGE_: trim image to specified map size\n", "yellow");

    _TRIM_MAP_EDGES_ GROUP=$group METHOD=$method
  }
}
