# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

CALC_SCUBA2_NEFD - Calculate NEFDs from SCUBA-2 images

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A simple PICARD recipe to calculate the noise equivalent flux density
(NEFD) from reduced SCUBA-2 images. The NEFD image is written as an
NDF component (called C<nefd>) to the original file (or a calibrated
version thereof) under the C<.more.smurf> hierarchy.

=head1 NOTES

=over 2

=item *

The input data should be calibrated in mJy/beam, but will be
calibrated if necessary.

=item *

The output file from this recipe will have suffix C<_cal> if the input
data were uncalibrated. The NEFD image will be in this file (though
see B<KEEPFILES> below).

=item *

The median and effective NEFD are printed to the screen.

=back

=head1 AVAILABLE PARAMETERS

The following recipe parameter can be set via the -recpars option:

=over 4

=item B<KEEPFILES>

Flag to denote whether to write the NEFD image as an NDF component in
the output file. Default is 1 (yes). If set to 0 the the median and
effective NEFDs will be derived and printed to the screen only; the
image will not be saved.

=back

=head1 DISPLAY

None.

=head1 AUTHORS

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2009,2014 University of British Columbia. All
Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

# Standard SCUBA2 setup
_JCMT_SETUP_

# Calculate the NEFD
_CALC_SCUBA2_NEFD_

