# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

SCUBA2_CHECK_RMS - calculate RMS and NEFD via two methods to compare with ITC

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This recipe reads the corresponding quick-look log file for NEPs, and
calculates the RMS and NEFD to compare with the integration time
calculator (ITC).

The average NEP and its standard deviation are determined for the
observation corresponding to the current file. The FCF is used to
convert that to an NEFD and thus an RMS using the length of the
observation. The RMS for the map is derived from its error component,
and the NEFD computed from this and the exposure time image. Finally
the ITC is used to determine the expected noise and NEFD for the
integration (elapsed) time.

The results are written to a log file, C<log.checkrms>.

=head1 NOTES

None.

=head1 DISPLAY

None.

=head1 AVAILABLE PARAMETERS

The following recipe parameters can be set via the --recpars option:

=over 2

=item ITC_F

Pixel scaling factor for the integration time calculator. Default is 1.

=item STATS_ESTIMATOR

Estimator for NEFD and RMS values derived from map. May be C<mean> or
C<median> (default).

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2013 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

# Standard initialization for JCMT instruments
_JCMT_SETUP_

# Read NEP log file and calculate average for current file
_SCUBA2_GET_NEP_FROM_FILE_

# Trim the image to the map size in the header
_CROP_JCMT_IMAGE_

# Determine the RMS and NEFD from the file and ITC, write results to log file
_SCUBA2_CHECK_RMS_

