# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

SCUBA2_REGISTER_IMAGES - Register SCUBA-2 images to a common position

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Register SCUBA-2 images to a common sky position. The position may be
specified, however, the WCS C<SkyRef> attribute is used if the source
is a calibrator; (0,0) is used for images in offset coordinate
systems. If no reference position has been established, the recipe
finds the brightest peak in the image and attempts to use that. All
subsequent images will then be registered to the first.

A fit is performed at the peak position in each image, using the
reference as an initial guess, and the tangent-plane X,Y offsets
between the peak and reference positions are calculated. The offsets
are applied to the WCS. Note that only a linear shift is performed;
this recipe is not a full astrometry matching routine and does not
deal with rotations between images.

The reference position is assumed to be RA/Dec coordinates if given in
sexagesimal format, otherwise Galactic (in degrees).

=head1 NOTES

=over 2

=item *

Creates an output file for each input file with suffix C<_reg>.

=item *

A reference position should always be given for non-calibrators.

=item *

The reference position should be that of a known source in each image,
and that source must be present in all images.

=item *

Supported coordinate systems are GAPPT, J2000 (including FK5, ICRS)
and Galactic.

=item *

The coordinate system of the reference position does not have to match
that of the images to be registered.

=back

=head1 AVAILABLE PARAMETERS

The following parameters can be set via the -recpars option:

=over 2

=item B<REGISTER_IMAGES>

Flag to indicate that the given images should all be shifted to a
common position. No action will be taken if this flag is false (0).

=item B<REGISTER_X>

X coordinate of reference position. May be Right Ascension (in
HH:MM:SS.S format) or Galactic longitude (in decimal degrees).

=item B<REGISTER_Y>

Y coordinate of reference position. May be Declination (in DD:MM:SS.S
format) or Galactic latitude (in decimal degrees).

=back

=head1 DISPLAY

None.

=head1 AUTHORS

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010,2014 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

# Check recipe parameters
_JCMT_SETUP_

# Shift the images
_SCUBA2_SHIFT_IMAGES_

# Tidy up
_DELETE_TEMP_FILES_ KEEP=_reg VERBOSE=0
