# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

SCUBA2_MATCHED_FILTER - Recipe for applying a matched filter to input images

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A simple PICARD recipe to apply a matched filter to input SCUBA-2
images with the aim of detecting point sources. The given images are
convolved with a PSF, which the user can supply or is created by the
recipe. Before the convolution, the maps and the PSF are smoothed with
a Gaussian, and these smoothed versions are subtracted from the
unsmoothed versions.

=head1 AVAILABLE PARAMETERS

The following parameters can be set via the -recpars option:

=over 4

=item PSF_MATCHFILTER

Name of an NDF file containing a suitable PSF. Must exist in the
current working directory. If not specified, the recipe will calculate
one itself for each input file.

=item PSF_NORM

Normalization scheme used for the PSF created by this recipe if one is
not specified using the above parameter. Maybe be C<PEAK> or C<SUM> to
indicate whether the Gaussian PSF should have a peak of unity or a sum
of unity. If not specified, the recipe assumes C<PEAK>.

=item SMOOTH_DATA

Flag to denote whether or not the image and PSF should be smoothed and
have the smoothed version subtracted from the original. If not
specified, the recipe assumes a value of 1 (smooth and subtract).

=item SMOOTH_FWHM

FWHM of Gaussian used to smooth data and PSF images before convolving
with the PSF. If not specified the recipe assumes 30 arcsec.

=back

=head1 NOTES

It may be worth cropping the images before applying this filter to
remove large-scale junk around the edge.

Input data should all be able to use the same PSF image (if specified).

=head1 DISPLAY

No display is used by this recipe.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

# Standard SCUBA2 setup
_SCUBA2_SETUP_

# Apply the matched filter to input files
_SCUBA2_MATCHED_FILTER_
