# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

SCUBA2_PHOTOM - perform aperture photometry on SCUBA-2 images

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Perform aperture photometry on SCUBA-2 images using the chosen
method. By default (i.e. with no recipe parameters), this recipe will
calculate the flux within a 60-arcsec diameter aperture, corrected for
any DC offsets by using the rest of the image to estimate the
background. Alternatively the background may be estimated from an
annulus centred on the source. Finally, the user may request that the
C<AUTOPHOTOM> packaged be used. Note, however, in that case that no
uncertainties are returned.

The results are written to a log file called C<log.flux>.

=head1 AVAILABLE PARAMETERS

The following parameters can be set via the -recpars option:

=over 2

=item ANNULUS

Flag to denote whether to use an annulus for background estimation.

=item ANNULUS_INNER

Inner radius for annulus as a multiplier of the aperture radius.

=item ANNULUS_OUTER

Outer radius for annulus as a multiplier of the aperture radius.

=item APERTURE_RADIUS

Radius of aperture in arcsec for calculating total flux.

=item AUTOPHOTOM

Flag to denote whether to use the C<autophotom> package for photometry.

=item REGISTER_DEC

Declination of position of aperture (DD:MM:SS format).

=item REGISTER_RA

Right ascension of position of aperture (HH:MM:SS format).

=item STATS_ESTIMATOR

Background estimator for aperture photometry. Default is C<median>.

=back

=head1 NOTES

It is assumed that the images can be used B<as is> with no further
requirement for cropping or background removal.

=head1 DISPLAY

No display is used by this recipe.

=head1 AUTHORS

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

# Standard SCUBA2 setup
_SCUBA2_SETUP_

# Call generic aperture photometry routine - method is chosen via
# recipe parameters
_SCUBA2_PHOTOM_
