# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

STACK_JCMT_FRAMES - stack images produced by JCMT instruments

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A simple PICARD recipe to stack SCUBA-2 or ACSIS images into a 3-d
cube with time as the third axis.

By default the recipe will write out a separate file for each UT date
given. SCUBA-2 data will also be sorted by the shutter setting. The
user may give a list of additional FITS headers for collating the
input files.

The user may also provide the name of an NDF extension which will be
stacked instead of the top-level data component (e.g. NEP).

=head1 NOTES

=over 2

=item *

Creates output files based on the name of the first file in the stack
with suffix C<_stack>, unless there is only 1 file to stack.

=item *

The given FITS header keywords must exist in every file, and are not
validated before accessing.

=back

=head1 AVAILABLE PARAMETERS

The following parameters can be set via the -recpars option:

=over 2

=item NDF_EXTEN

The name of an NDF extension to stack, rather than the top-level data
structure. It must be located under the C<.more.smurf> hierarchy, and
no check is made that it exists before attempting to access it.

=item STACK_KEYS

A list of FITS header keywords to be used to sort the files before
stacking. Only files with matching FITS header values will be used in
the stack.

=back

=head1 DISPLAY

No display is used by this recipe.

=head1 AUTHORS

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2012 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

# Standard JCMT setup
_JCMT_SETUP_

# Collate and stack the files, sorting by time
_STACK_JCMT_FRAMES_
