=head1 Name

EXTENDED_SOURCE_NOSTD

Produce a coadded, sky-subtracted, wavelength calibrated datacube from
a group of SKY-OBJECT pairs of IFU frames.

=head1 Description

Read-noise and Poisson variances are added to the frame and a bad
pixel mask is applied. The spectrum from each slice of the IFU is cut
out of the frame and pasted in a new frame in such a way that there
are no longer spaces between the spectra, the spectra are arranged in
the order in which they appear in the field of view and they are
approximately aligned in the dispersion direction. The spectrum is
flat-fielded and sky-object pairs are now subtracted.  The wavelength
calibration previously measured from the arc spectrum is used to apply
a common, linear wavelength scale to each row of the the
sky-subtracted 2d spectrum.  The resulting frame is coadded to the
group, which is then rearranged to form a data-cube. Images can be
extracted over a range of wavelengths specified in a file called
extract.images placed in the $ORAC_DATA_OUT directory, and can be
displayed by editing the disp.dat file.

=head1 Notes

=over 4

=item *

A suitable flat-field spectrum and arc spectrum should previously have
been reduced and filed with the calibration system.

=item *

Sky-object pairs may be observed in any sequence (for example
sky-object-object-sky or object-sky-object-sky). Any observations
with telescope offsets greater than 30 arcsec will be assumed to be
a sky position. It is recommended that the observation types are set
to OBJECT and SKY as appropriate (this is essential if your offsets
to sky are smaller than 30 arcsec)

=item *

Variances are propagated if Kappa 1.0 or later is available. A warning
is displayed if variances are lost.

=item *

This is a variant of EXTENDED_SOURCE which does not divide the
spectrum by a standard star or flux calibrate the spectrum. It may be
useful to specify this recipe on the command line when running ORAC-DR
if you choose to defer observation of your standard until after you
have observed your object.

=back

=head1 Output data

The individual frames with slices extracted and approximately aligned
have the suffix _ext. The flat-fielded, scrunched, sky-subtracted
pairs have the suffix _scr.

Several group files are created (with names starting gu_). The coadded
scrunched 2-d spectrum has the suffix _scr. This is formed into a
datacube with the suffix _cub.

=head1 Authors

Stephen Todd <spt@roe.ac.uk>, Paul Hirst <p.hirst@jach.hawaii.edu>

=head1 Copyright

Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Particle Physics and Astronomy Research
Council. All Rights Reserved.

=cut

_REDUCE_SINGLE_FRAME_ NOARC=1 NOCUBE=1

_PAIRWISE_SUBTRACT_NOD_TO_SKY_

_COADD_TO_GROUP_ NOSTD=1

_IFU_TIDY_