=head1 Name

EXTENDED_SOURCE_NOSTD

Reduce a group of sky-object pairs of IFU frames, mosaicing datacubes
using telescope offsets.

=head1 Description

This recipe produces a coadded, sky-subtracted, wavelength calibrated
datacube from a group of sky-object pairs of IFU frames. The telescope
offsets are used to mosaic datacubes together, allowing a region
larger than the field of view of the IFU to be mapped.

Read-noise and Poisson variances are added to the frame and a bad
pixel mask is applied. The spectrum from each slice of the IFU is cut
out of the frame and pasted in a new frame in such a way that there
are no longer spaces between the spectra, the spectra are arranged in
the order in which they appear in the field of view and they are
approximately aligned in the dispersion direction. The spectrum is
flat-fielded and the wavelength calibration measured from the arc
spectrum is used to apply a common, linear wavelength scale to each
row of the the 2d spectrum.

Sky-object pairs are now subtracted, and the resulting frame is
rearranged to form a data-cube, which is mosaiced into the group.

=head1 Notes

=over 4

=item *
  
A suitable flat-field spectrum and arc spectrum should previously have
been reduced and filed with the calibration system.

=item *

It is recommended that the observation types of the observations are set
to OBJECT and SKY as appropriate. This is inconvenient if you wish to
set up a sequence using an offset iterator in ORAC-OT, so any frames
with a telescope offset greater than 30 arcsec will be assumed to be a
sky position.

=item *

Variances are propagated if Kappa 1.0 or later is available. A warning
is displayed if variances are lost.

=item *

Any number of sky-object pairs in any jitter pattern may be used.

=item *

This is a variant of MAP_EXTENDED_SOURCE which does not divide the
spectrum by a standard star or flux calibrate the spectrum. It may be
useful to specify this recipe on the command line when running ORAC-DR
if you choose to defer observation of your standard until after you
have observed your object.

=back

=head1 Output data

The individual frames with slices extracted and approximately aligned
have the suffix _ext. The flat-fielded, scrunched, sky-subtracted
pairs have the suffix _scr. A datacube is formed from each pair with
the suffix _cub.

The datacubes are mosiaced into a file with the suffix _mos. A white
light image is extracted from this datacube with the suffix _im.

=head1 Authors

Stephen Todd <spt@roe.ac.uk>

=head1 Copyright

Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Particle Physics and Astronomy Research
Council. All Rights Reserved.

=cut

# Do the initial reduction (adding variances, extracting the slices, 
# flat fielding etc)

_REDUCE_SINGLE_FRAME_ NOARC=1 NOCUBE=1

# Subtract sky-object pairs and scrunch to common wavelength scale

_PAIRWISE_SUBTRACT_NOD_TO_SKY_

# Make the datacube, form the mosaic and extract an image and spectrum 
# to be displayed

_MOSAIC_STEER_ NOSTD=1



