# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

_CALCULATE_FCFS_ - calculate flux conversion factors for calibrators

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 _CALCULATE_FCFS_

=head1 DESCRIPTION

For calibrators, derive Flux Conversion Factors (FCFs) which convert
bolometer power in pW to Jy/beam or Jy/arcsec**2. The input image is
first trimmed to the map size given in the header and, if requested
via a recipe parameter, a background removed by masking out the source
and fitting and subtracting a 2-d surface. This trimmed and
background-subtracted image is then analyzed to derive the FCFs.

See also the PICARD recipe L<SCUBA2_CHECK_CAL|SCUBA2_CHECK_CAL>.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

The primitive has no arguments.

=head1 EXTERNAL TASKS

The following external tasks are used:

=over 4

=item ORAC-DR PRIMITIVES

_CROP_IMAGE_ALL_, _FIND_CALIBRATION_MAP_, _REMOVE_BACKGROUND_FROM_IMAGE_

=back

=head1 NOTES

This primitive is frame based (C<$Frm>) and uses data tagged with
C<newimage>.

The primitive is a no-op if the current product indicates that the
Frame contains calibrated data.

The background-substraction will only take place if the recipe
parameter C<REMOVE_BACKGROUND> is 1.

=head1 OUTPUT DATA

See L<_FIND_CALIBRATION_MAP_|_FIND_CALIBRATION_MAP_> for details of
how the results are stored.

=head1 OUTPUT FILES

Files with the suffix C<_crop> (and optionally <_back>) are created
but deleted at the end of processing.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1  COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2013 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

# Only calculate FCFs for calibrators if an image exists. Do nothing
# (quietly) if this is not the case.
if ($Cal->iscalsource($Frm->hdr("OBJECT")) ) {
  if ($Frm->tagretrieve("newimage") && $Frm->product ne "calib") {

    # Trim image in current Frame to mapped area
    _CROP_IMAGE_ALL_ VERBOSE=0 HEIGHT=90 WIDTH=90 GROUP=0

    # These settings come from the PICARD recipe but are subject to
    # change and may be overridden by recipe parameters
    if ($Frm->uhdr("RECPAR_REMOVE_BACKGROUND")) {
      _REMOVE_BACKGROUND_FROM_IMAGE_ MASK=1 METHOD=FITSURFACE VERBOSE=0
    }

    # Derive FCFs using the trimmed, background-subtracted image
    _FIND_CALIBRATION_MAP_

    # Now the FCFs have been calculated, store the original map again
    $Frm->tagretrieve("newimage");
  } else {
    orac_warn "Unable to calculate FCFs - no new uncalibrated data present\n";
  }
}

