# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

_GET_MAKEMAP_ARGS_ - Obtain recipe parameters for makemap

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 _GET_MAKEMAP_ARGS_

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Returns a hash containing new values for the arguments given. The
arguments are obtained from the Frame uhdr as recipe parameters.

No checking is made for correct or valid values. See the documentation
for C<makemap> for further details on how each parameter may be
specified.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

This primitive has no arguments.

=head1 OUTPUT DATA

On exit, the following entry exists in the primitive hash,
C<_GET_MAKEMAP_ARGS_>:

=over 4

=item B<ARGS>

A reference to a hash with keys of the makemap arguments corresponding
to the recipe parameters defined in the Frame uhdr.

The list of valid keys is retrieved via the C<makemap_args> Frame
method, defined in L<ORAC::Frame::SCUBA2|ORAC::Frame::SCUBA2>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

my %makemapargs;

# Obtain list of acceptable makemap arguments
my @args = $Frm->makemap_args;

# Loop over each and store in hash to pass back to caller
foreach my $arg ( @args ) {
  my $recpar = "RECPAR_MAKEMAP_" . uc($arg);
  $makemapargs{$arg} = $Frm->uhdr($recpar) if defined $Frm->uhdr($recpar);
}

# Store the argument hash if any new values were stored
$_GET_MAKEMAP_ARGS_{ARGS} = \%makemapargs if %makemapargs;
