# -*-perl-*-

=head1 NAME

_REMOVE_SKY_POLY_ - Subtracts a polynomial fit from time-series data

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 _REMOVE_SKY_POLY_

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Subtracts a polynomial fit from uncalibrated time-series data. The
polynomial fit exists as an NDF component within the data files which
was written by the data-acquisition system. An error is generated if
this primitive is run on calibrated data since sky subtraction should
have been done already.

This is a Frame operation, operating on all files in the current Frame
object and should be used before Group operations.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

This primitive has no arguments.

=head1 EXTERNAL TASKS

The following external task is used:

=over 4

=item SMURF:

REMSKY

=back

=head1 OUTPUT FILES

Creates an output file with a C<_sky> extension. The Frame is updated
with the new file names.

=head1 NOTES

Assumes that this step should be done before calibration although it's
a bit late to tell the user that it should have been done at an
earlier stage.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2006 the University of British Columbia.  All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

# Loop over files in the Frm object
orac_print "Subtracting per-bolometer polynomial fits\n";
for my $i (1..$Frm->nfiles) {

  my ($in, $out) = $Frm->inout("_sky", $i);
  $Mon{smurf_mon}->obeyw("remsky","in=$in out=$out method=poly");

  # Update file
  $Frm->file($i, $out);

}

orac_print "Polynomial subtraction successful\n";

