# -*-cperl-*-

=head1 NAME

_REMOVE_BACKGROUND_FROM_IMAGE_ -  fit and remove a background from an image

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 _REMOVE_BACKGROUND_FROM_IMAGE_

 _REMOVE_BACKGROUND_FROM_IMAGE_ METHOD=BACKGROUND BOX=15

 _REMOVE_BACKGROUND_FROM_IMAGE_ METHOD=PLANE

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This primitive fits and subtracts a background from an image. The user
may choose the type of fit with the B<METHOD> parameter. Three methods
are supported:

=over 4

=item * find and remove a general background of arbitrary shape (using
CUPID C<FINDBACK>);

=item * fit and remove a 2-D plane;

=item * subtract a simple mean level.

=back

It is assumed that this is amounts to removing the bulk atmospheric
contribution from the data, with the result that the Frame has the
uhdr entry C<SKY_SUBTRACTION> set to 1 on success. It will not work on
raw time series data.


=head1 ARGUMENTS

The following arguments are supported:

=over 4

=item B<BOX>

Size of box in pixels to use when estimating the background. Only
accessed if B<METHOD> is C<BACKGROUND>. Default is 15.

=item B<FORCE>

A flag to override the sky subtraction uhdr entry. Default is 0 (do
not override).

=item B<METHOD>

Method to use for background estimate. May be C<BACKGROUND>, C<DC> or
C<PLANE>. Default is C<BACKGROUND>.

=item B<VERBOSE>

Flag to denote whether to print extra messages. Default is 1 (yes).

=back

=head1 EXTERNAL TASKS

The following external tasks are used:

=over 4

=item CUPID:

FINDBACK

=item ORAC-DR PRIMITIVES:

_REMOVE_DC_SKY_, _REMOVE_PLANE_FROM_IMAGE_

=back

=head1 OUTPUT DATA

Sets the C<SKY_SUBTRACTION> flag in the Frame uhdr.

=head1 OUTPUT FILES

Creates output files with the suffix C<_sky>. The Frame is updated
with the sky-subtracted files.

=head1 NOTES

Only works on Frames. Does not work on time-series (3-d) data.

No action is taken if the C<SKY_SUBTRACTION> flag is already set in
the Frame uhdr.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Gibb  E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

my $force = get_prim_arg( $_PRIM_ARGS_, "FORCE", 0 );

unless ( $Frm->uhdr("SKY_SUBTRACTION") && !$force ) {

  # Should I be verbose (default to yes)
  my $verbose = get_prim_arg( $_PRIM_ARGS_, "VERBOSE", 1 );

  # Method of background removal
  my $bgmethod = lc(get_prim_arg( $_PRIM_ARGS_, "METHOD", "background"));

  # Fall back on the default if not recognized
  if ( $bgmethod !~ /^[back|plan|dc]/ ) {
    orac_warn "Unrecognized background-removal option, $bgmethod: using default (background)\n";
    $bgmethod = "background";
  }

  if ( $bgmethod eq "background" ) {
    # Fit and remove a background
    my $nfiles = $Frm->nfiles;
    my $images = ( $nfiles > 1 ) ? "images" : "image";
    orac_print "Fitting and removing background from $nfiles $images..."
      if $verbose;

    my $box = get_prim_arg( $_PRIM_ARGS_, "BOX", 15 );
    my @out;

    # Fit and remove background from each file
    foreach my $i ( 1 .. $Frm->nfiles ) {
      my ($in, $out) = $Frm->inout( "_sky", $i);
      my $args = "in=$in out=$out box=$box sub=true accept";
      $Mon{cupid_mon}->obeyw("findback","$args");
      push(@out, $out);
    }
    # Store output files
    $Frm->files(@out);
    orac_print " done\n" if $verbose;

    # Set SKY_SUBTRACTION flag
    $Frm->uhdr("SKY_SUBTRACTION", 1);
    # Need to add log file creation here too
  } elsif ( $bgmethod eq "plane" ) {
    # Use existing primitive for fitting and removing a 2-D plane
    _REMOVE_PLANE_FROM_IMAGE_
  } elsif ( $bgmethod eq "dc") {
    # DC sky removal
    _REMOVE_DC_SKY_ METHOD=MEAN VERBOSE=0
  }

} else {
  orac_warn "Sky subtraction already carried out on this Frame\n";
}
