# -*-perl-*-

=head1 NAME

_REMOVE_PLANE_FROM_TIMESERIES_ -  remove a plane from time-series data

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 _REMOVE_PLANE_FROM_TIMESERIES_ FIT=PLANE RELATED=1

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This primitive fits a 2-d plane to the bolometer data at each time in
time-series data. The user can control the type of fit through the
B<FIT> and B<RELATED> parameters. See the SMURF C<REMSKY>
documentation for full details. Operates on all files in the current
Frame object.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

The following arguments are supported:

=over 4

=item B<FIT>

Options are subtract a mean value (MEAN), or to fit a 2-D plane in
elevation only (ELEV) or an arbitrary plane (PLANE). Default is
MEAN. ELEV is slowest.

=item B<RELATED>

A flag to denote whether to group related files and fit across all
subarrays at a given sample. Default is 0 (do not group related files).

=item B<VERBOSE>

A flag to denote whether to report more messages. Default is 1 (yes).

=back

=head1 EXTERNAL TASKS

The following external task is used:

=over 4

=item SMURF:

REMSKY

=back

=head1 OUTPUT DATA

Sets the C<SKY_SUBTRACTION> Frame uhdr entry to 1 if successful.

=head1 OUTPUT FILES

Creates output files with the suffix C<_sky>. The Frame is updated
with the new files.

=head1 NOTES

Does not return or log the subtracted sky values.

No action is taken if the C<SKY_SUBTRACTION> flag is set in the Frame
uhdr.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Gibb E<lt>agg@astro.ubc.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008 University of British Columbia. All Rights
Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=cut

unless ( $Frm->uhdr("SKY_SUBTRACTION") ) {
  # Tell user...
  orac_print "Removing sky from timeseries data by fitting and subtracting a plane\n";

  # Should I be verbose (default to yes)
  my $verbose = get_prim_arg( $_PRIM_ARGS_, "VERBOSE", 1 );

  # Are related files to be grouped together in the fit?
  my $related = get_prim_arg( $_PRIM_ARGS_, "RELATED", 0);
  my $group = ( $related ) ? "group" : "nogroup";

  # Choice of fit - either slope or plane
  my $fit = lc(get_prim_arg( $_PRIM_ARGS_, "METHOD", "plane"));
  $fit = "slope" if ( $fit eq "elev" );
  # Check that the fit parameter is valid
  if ( $fit ne "slope" && $fit ne "plane" && $fit ne "mean" ) {
    orac_warn "Unrecognized fit method, $fit - falling back on default (mean)\n";
    $fit = "mean";
  }

  # Get list of input/output files
  my ($inlist, $outlist, @out) = write_file_list_inout($Frm, "_sky");

  # Call remsky
  my $args = "in=^$inlist out=^$outlist method=plane fit=$fit $group";
  $Mon{smurf_mon}->obeyw("remsky","$args");

  # Store output files in Frame
  $Frm->files(@out);
  # Set the sky subtraction flag
  $Frm->uhdr("SKY_SUBTRACTION",1);

} else {
  orac_warn "Sky subtraction already carried out on this Frame\n";
}

